# Speech To Indian Sign Langauge Convertor
Sign language is the primary means of communication for the deaf community, but not everyone is proficient in this language. This can lead to communication barriers and exclusion of the deaf community from important conversations and events. The text or speech to sign language converter is an innovative tool/ software that aims to bridge the communication gap between the hearing and deaf communities. Many such convertors already exist most of them are for American or British sign language. Sign languages are different for every country. Since Indian sign language is still in its infancy stage, there aren’t many convertors for Indian sign language. Limited database and low accuracy are some common drawbacks of the convertors that exist. So, our project proposes an accurate and efficient web-based application for converting text and audio input given in any spoken language (Hindi, English, Marathi, Telugu, Spanish, etc) into Indian Sign Language (ISL) using JavaScript Web API, GoogleTrans API, text processing according to ISL and ISL video keyword matching. <br />
# Implementation Details
Framework: Python Django <br />
Coding Environment: VS Code <br />
Data collection: The first step is to collect a dataset of spoken English and its corresponding ISL translation. We collected data from https://indiansignlanguage.org/ . <br /> Each animation is stored in the database by their English name. <br />
Speech recognition: The speech recognition API is used to transcribe the spoken English into text. This involves sending the recorded speech to the API and receiving the corresponding text output. We are using JavaScript Web to Speech API for Speech recognition. <br />
Machine Translation: We have used GoogleTrans API for machine translation of input given from XYZ Language to English language. It is a highly accurate API. <br />
Pre-processing: The text output from the speech recognition API must be pre-processed as per ISL rules before being sent for translation. This may involve cleaning the data, and performing text processing tasks such as tokenization, stopword removal and lemmatization using the NLTK library of python. <br />
Translation: The keywords from pre-processing are then matched with the ISL video names in the database and all matching videos are merged. <br />
Sign language output: The resulting ISL output is then displayed on the screen or communicated through a sign language avatar. <br />
Request Word Page: If any words are not present in the database, the ISL video of letters in the word will be displayed to the user. So, if user comes across any such word, they can use this page to request the said word to be added to the database. <br />

